Back in Blendr Let's go ahead and bring that image in back into object mode and create a whole new material
for our can here call it beer can now bring in an image texture Noad here and I'll go ahead and connect
it up and then bring in that image I'll go to my textures folder and here it is that beer can underscore
see.
I'll open it up and here it is.
Now the main problem I see here is that this particular top this particular tab is just a little too
big.
It feels like it's too wide.
So there are some adjustments that we can do here in blender in the U-V map so I'll tab back into edit
mode and I'll select this piece right here.
I'll change what we're seeing underneath the U.V. map by coming down here and selecting that beer can
here.
Now you can see that if we turn off our stretch we've got the images underneath our U-V map.
What I'd like to do is try and scale this a bit to see if I can get it to be a little bit smaller on
the object.
I feel like that tab and the opening is just too big.
So I'll hit the s key here and scale this down a bit.
Now that's not going to work.
But if I scale this up a bit like this.
Well that helps with the size of the image.
But now we can see that black bleeding over into the texture of our model.
And we don't want that.
So now that I feel like this is about the right size for our object what I need to do is come back and
adjust this image.
So it works a little better with our object.
So I'll tab back into edit mode and I just want to move this.
Now I'll hit the G key and the x key and I'll move it so it isn't overlapping the other circular image.
And now I need to take this back into Gimp and adjust that image.
So let's do that quickly I'll go to Uvas export image and I'll call this beer can you use to call it
2 and export it out back here in Gamp I can go ahead and open that image up.
Here's the movies too.
I'll open it up here selected and copy it into our main document and there it is.
All right click and choose two new layer.
Now I can come in here and adjust the image a bit.
So I'll go to my move to and with the arrow key I'll just nudge this over maybe press shift and arrow
and nudge it over a bit.
So it's kind of in the center of that U-V island.
Now perhaps what I can do is take this piece here and duplicate it.
So with this lair selected I'll press shift command D and that will duplicate the layer.
And now I can go to my move tool.
And once again with my arrow keys I can begin to move this over and slide it in underneath this piece
right here.
Looks like I'm gonna need to scale it up a bit and then I'll use the Move tool again just to try and
get it into place.
And it looks to me like it might be overlapping the beer can label.
So what I can do is just take that and drag it down underneath the label.
So it's hidden down beneath that.
So let's export it and see how it looks.
And now back in blender with this image texture node's selected.
Now you just come over here to this button right here and reload that image from disk.
And there we go.
So now you can see we've taken care of that black.
That was happening along the edge of the can top.
Now the last thing I want to do is adjust this material so it looks a little better it looks a little
shiny or more like metal.
So I will bring in a glossy Shater and a mix note as well.
And put those together.
Now I need to set up my scene so I can see it in a render.
The first thing I'll do is create a polygon play and I just want to have something that the can is sitting
on.
And another thing I'll do is duplicate this plane and bring it up.
Maybe scale it down a bit and this is going to be our light.
Now rotate it around the x axis just a bit.
And now we can create an emission material for this object and have it be a light.
So I click new call this light
right up here in the node Ed..
I'm going to grab this tab and pull out a new window and make this Properties window right here and
now I can choose my material and I can change my diffuse node here from diffuse to emission.
I'll change from textured viewport shading to rendered.
I'll zoom in here and here is what we have so far.
Now I can change the strength of the emission node here say bring it up to 3 and that brightens up the
scene quite a bit.
But we're getting a little too much shine off of the can.
Here I'll select the cam and I can bring that mix shader down so it's bringing in more of the diffuse
material than the glossy.
But the challenge of creating a metal material oftentimes isn't the settings itself.
It's actually what the metal is reflecting.
Currently there isn't anything for the metal to reflect.
We're just seeing this gray background reflected in the can what we can do is bring in an HDR image
an image in the background here that will help us gauge how the reflections are working on our material.
So to do that let's come over here in this property window that I've kind of squeezed into the node
window and hit the end key to close that panel up.
But over here in the Properties window what let's do is come over to the world settings and click on
use nodes.
Now if we come over to the world settings here and take a look at the nodes for the world here it is.
We can now bring in an image for our background I'll press shift a and a good texture and instead of
bringing in an image texture I'm going to bring in an environment texture so I'll click that and I'll
open it up and bring in an image I have here of an apartment.
Click Open and now are connected to the back ground node.
Now if we zoom out we can see heres the whole apartment projected in our background.
Now I can zoom in and we can begin to see as a reflection some of that apartment in our material.
So let me just go back to our object nodes and if I take this mix shader all the way up to the glossy
you can begin to see some of the reflections in the can.
Now take the roughness of the glossy down to zero here.
And now you can really see it its almost like a mirror.
So I dont think we need it quite that shiny.
Maybe I'll take the roughness back.
Point one is try that up point 0 5 and then bring the mic shader down something like this.
Maybe we'll take it down to Point three.
So there we go.
Now we've got some of that reflection happening in our can.
So now we've taken a look at U.V. mapping.
A couple of objects taking that U-V map out to Gimp and creating an image texture for it.
We then brought it in and combine that image texture with some material settings within blender.
Now what let's do is let's take a look at texturing completely in Blender.
We'll look at some of Blender's texture painting tools and how we can save out and bake our textures
to be used here in blender and in external programs like the unity game engine.